# RNA-Seq_pipeline

* script/make_read_count (directory): contains scripts generating read count data for each RNA-Seq library by featureCounts.
  * RNA-Seq_TCGA.sh: for TCGA RNA-Seq. gdc-client (v1.3.0), sambamba (v0.6.6), and featureCounts (v1.6.2) are used.
  * RNA-Seq_CCLE.sh: for CCLE RNA-Seq. gdc-client (v1.3.0), sambamba (v0.6.6), and featureCounts (v1.6.2) are used.
  * RNA-Seq_A549.sh: for A549 RNA-Seq. trimmomatic (v0.36), STAR (v2.5.3a), and featureCounts (v1.6.2) are used.
* script/batch_pipeline.sh: a shell script to run the following programs.
* script/sum_table.py: concatenates the results of featureCounts of respective RNA-Seq data.
* script/sum_featureCount_info.py: concatenates the featureCounts library information of respective RNA-Seq data (.summary file).
* script/QC_filtering_RNA-Seq_libary.R: detects and excludes the outlier RNA-Seq libraries regarding the proportion of "non-assigned" reads (i.e., the fragments that were uniquely mapped on the reference genome but not on HERVs or the exons of genes). The outlier libraries were detected recursively using the Smirnov-Grubbs test (the threshold was set at 0.05).
* script/calc_total_HERV_expression.R: calculates the total expression level of HERVs in each RNA-Seq data.
* script/calc_subfamily_level_expression.py: calculates the expression level of respective HERV subfamilies.
* script/vst.R: performs variance-stavilization transformation. DESeq2 (v1.18.1) is used.
* script/gsva.R: calculates gene set-wise expression score (GSVA score). GSVA (v1.34.0) is used.

* test.txt.gz: a read count matrix generated by "script/sum_table.py". Related data are available in the Mendeley data repository (http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/c7r7dw9p42.1).
* test.featureCounts.info.txt.gz: summary of the featureCounts library information generated by "script/sum_featureCount_info.py".
